1. Shri Kasba Ganpati Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Mandal
Established in 1893, this idol holds the status of presiding deity among all Ganesh Mandals in Pune. The Kasba Ganpati is the first one to be immersed and is fittingly called the “Manacha Pahila Ganpati” or the most revered Ganpati. The festivities at this Mandal is a must-watch.

Where: 159, Kasba Peth, Pune

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sUAGYVWBKcI
2. Tambdi Jogeshwari Ganpati
This is one of the Ganpati’s started by Lokmanya Tilak in 1893. The head of the idol at Tambdi Jogeshwari Ganpati resembles that of an African elephant. This idol has remained the same since it’s inception and has been made by a single family over 4 generations. The Tambdi Jogeshwari Ganpati is known as the ‘Gramdevata of Pune,’ (Protector of Pune). The celebrations at this temple are very traditional so don’t expect any Bollywood numbers or item songs playing at this Mandal.

Where: 33 (A) Budhwar Peth, Pune


3. Guruji Talim Ganpati
This mandal has a unique history of being started by one Hindu and one Muslim family in 1887. Guruji Talim Ganpati is said to be the oldest mandal in Pune which started even before Lokmanya Tilak revived the Ganpati festival. This mandal plays a crucial role in spreading communal harmony since it started. It is given the third preference in the immersion procession.

Where: Ganpati Chowk, Laxmi Road, Pune


4. Tulshibaug Ganpati
Tulshibaug Ganpati is the largest Ganpati idol in Pune and stands at 15 feet tall. The mandal pays respect to the women of the Tulshi Baug market who help to bring in the revenue at his market. Tulshibaug Ganpati has a unique theme every year but they don’t spend much on being lavish. A good part of the donations goes for various social causes.

Where: Tulshibaug, Budhwar Peth, Pune


5. Kesari Wada Ganpati
This pandal was formed in 1893 by Lokmanya Tilak. It has the privilege of being the fifth most honored Ganpati in Pune. This pandal is well-known among locals for its social and cultural activities for children and other devotees.

Where: 250, Budhvar Peth, Shivaji Road, Pune


6. Dagdusheth Halwai Ganpati
This Mandal is one of the most popular mandals among the devotees. Established in 1893, this mandal is visited by celebrities as well as locals. Dagduseth Halwai pandal plays an important role in identifying Pune’s cultural significance. This Mandal also holds the crown of the richest Ganpati in Pune.

Where: Babu Genu Chowk, Pune


7. Hutatma Babu Genu Ganesh Mandal Trust
This Mandal was established in 1970 and is named after a famous freedom fighter. It is believed to fulfill all your wishes and also has a wishing pond, ‘Iccha Poorti Kund‘ where devotees throw coins and make a wish.

Where: Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth


8. Jilbya Maruti Ganpati Mandir
This mandal was established in 1954 and is famous for its lively Ganesh idol. It is also known as ‘Navasacha Ganpati’. This Ganpati idol is also believed to fulfill all your wishes.

Where: Shanipar Mandai Rd, Tulshibaug, Shukrawar Peth


9. Shrimant Bhausaheb Rangari Mandal
This mandal is the oldest sarvajanik mandal set up in India. Established in 1892, this mandal is well known for its eco-friendly idols. This mandal was formed by Bhausaheb Laxman Javale or as he was popularly known as Bhau Rangari.

Where: Bhau Rangari Road, Budhwar Peth


10. Akhil Mandai Mandal
Akhil Mandai Mandal is one of the most important mandals in Pune. This mandal is thronged by thousands of devotees from the city as well as other cities of Maharashtra. It is also well known for its extravagant and beautiful decor.

Where: Budhvar Peth, Mandai, Shukrawar Peth

