We can't keep calm because it's Buppa's Birthday! Ganesh Chaturthi doesn't need any introduction at all. We all love Ganpati Buppa and are always eager to bring him home for the ten days of celebration every year, aren't we? What you probably won't know is that Chaturthi literally means "chaar" which is the fourth day of the Bhadrapada month (no, that's not an alien species, that's the sixth month of the Hindu calendar).

When our life came to a standstill with the Corona Storm taking over the world, our Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations (and our hearts) took a hit, tremendously, I might add. With all the celebrations taking place online since well, 2019, we've grown well versed with the celebrations shifting virtual (even though it stings). So, here we are keeping your spirits higher than high for celebrating a safe and sound Ganesh Chaturthi with 7 awesome and creative ways (just like our awesome and creative Ganesh Chaturthi gifts collection) to have a lovely fest!


via GIPHY

Let's begin!

1. Modak Eating Competition

Buppa loves Modaks more than anything! He would naughtily steal and eat modaks from everywhere. So, a modak eating competition is a must, don't you think? How to begin, then? Well, get a certain fixed amount of modaks in a bowl and pair up with a partner. While you are blindfolded (and don't know how many modaks you're supposed to eat), your partner will feed them to you one by one. Whichever team finishes the modaks in lesser time, wins! Buppa will be super proud! :D


via GIPHY

 

2. Rangoli Making Competition

Let your artsy side out to play. Take your colors out and make some awesome patterns! Making rangolis is always so fun! You could always try some intricate and yet easy as pie, awesome rangoli patterns and competition aside, your home would look brighter and more beautiful with the colorful rangolis adorning it.

Ganesh Chaturthi
Source: theholidayspot.com

3. A Mouth-watering Food Fest

With the cook inside you on the lookout, go out on a limb and make a mouth watering food fest with your siblings, spouse, or of course, dearest maa. You could make the Buppa special which would include Modaks, cooked channa, laddoos, coconut, jaggery, kheer, dryfruits, and some more laddoos! You could make any dish along with it that you find special and with the offering to Ganpati, serve it all as prasad. And do not forget, you could serve it all in our quirky kitchen essentials. Go have a look.

Ganesh Chaturthi
Source: myfoodstory.com

4. Antakshari

With this one, we'd definitely remind you, old is gold! Antakshari has been our go to expression of fun since childhood, isn't it? Bring back the memories of bachpan with this one. Team up against the Maa Paa's generation and sing those retro tunes out loud. And we have the Vintage Gramophone Bluetooth Speaker to accompany you. But let us warn you beforehand, they're so gonna win this one. 

Ganesh Chaturthi
Source: news18.com 

5. Spark up the home with wonderous Incense Burners

Not to brag but the absolutely amazing Incense Burners collection here at Bigsmall is so dreamy, be it the Ganesh Ji Incense Burner for that special Ganesh Chaturthi feels or the adorable Buddha Incense Burner. Get some tranquil fragrance spreaders and put them across your home for a soothing and calming aura. It is undoubtedly, one of the best ways to have a peaceful and alleviating Ganesh Chaturthi.

Ganesh Chaturthi

6. Decorate your home with mesmerizing Lamps and Lights for festive feels!

For those festive vibes, lights, lamps and diyas are a must. They emit those therapeutic, soothing vibes to get your wholesome festive self out to celebrate. So decorate your home with some beautiful lamps and lights because the right amount of lights make everything magical. Go one step further, and decorate your beautiful home with some incredible home decoration items.

Ganesh Chaturthi

7. Dress up and accessorize for the Celebration!

After all the preparation for the celebrations, dress up and well, accessorize well (you could have a sneak peak at our stylish jewellery). Because dressing up uplifts the mood and spirit, doesn't it? Have an amazing dress up mini fest before the festive celebrations begin. 

Ganesh Chaturthi

Do not forget, Ganpati Buppa is the God of Gods for new beginnings. So get the new chapters of your life blessings from our loved and celebrated, Buppa.

Have a heartwarming Ganesh Chaturthi :)